style: apply /style-guide pass to models/track (#2728)
wandb/docs: models/track/log/log-models.mdx

# Log models

> This guide shows you how to log model files to a W&B run as a model artifact, and how to retrieve and reuse those files in later runs. Logging models to a run lets you track which experiment produced a given model, capture its lineage, and make it available for downstream use. Use this page if you want lightweight model tracking as part of an experiment tracking workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows you how to log model files to a W&B run as a model artifact, and how to retrieve and reuse those files in later runs. Logging models to a run lets you track which experiment produced a given model, capture its lineage, and make it available for downstream use.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion in `cf5b4357`.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

<Note>
The following APIs are useful for tracking models as a part of your experiment tracking workflow. Use the APIs listed on this page to log models to a run, and to access metrics, tables, media, and other objects.

W&B suggests that you use [W&B Artifacts](/models/artifacts/) if you want to:
- Create and keep track of different versions of serialized data besides models, such as datasets and prompts.
- Explore [lineage graphs](/models/artifacts/explore-and-traverse-an-artifact-graph/) of a model or any other objects tracked in W&B.
- Interact with the model artifacts these methods created, such as [updating properties](/models/artifacts/update-an-artifact/) (metadata, aliases, and descriptions).

For more information about W&B Artifacts and advanced versioning use cases, see the [Artifacts](/models/artifacts/) documentation.
</Note>

## Log a model to a run

> This section explains how to use `log_model` to log a model artifact from a W&B run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section explains how to use `wandb.Run.log_model()` to log a model artifact from a W&B run.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion in `cf5b4357`.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

> Use the [`log_model`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#log_model) method to log a model artifact that contains content within a directory you specify. The [`log_model`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#log_model) method also marks the resulting model artifact as an output of the W&B run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [`wandb.Run.log_model()`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#log_model) method to log a model artifact that contains content within a directory you specify. `wandb.Run.log_model()` method also marks the resulting model artifact as an output of the W&B run.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion in `cf5b4357`.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

You can track a model's dependencies and the model's associations if you mark the model as the input or output of a W&B run. View the lineage of the model within the W&B App UI. For more information, see the [Explore and traverse artifact graphs](/models/artifacts/explore-and-traverse-an-artifact-graph/) page within the [Artifacts](/models/artifacts/) chapter.

> Provide the path where your model files are saved to the `path` parameter. The path can be a local file, directory, or [reference URI](/models/artifacts/track-external-files/#amazon-s3--gcs--azure-blob-storage-references) to an external bucket such as `s3://bucket/path`.

Reviewer: Shouldn't have `#amazon-s3*` part of URL

Author: Dropped the stale `#amazon-s3...` fragment; the link now points to `/models/artifacts/track-external-files/` in `cf5b4357`.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

> Replace `[YOUR-PROJECT]` with your project name, `[YOUR-ENTITY]` with your entity name, `[PATH-TO-MODEL]` with the path to your model files, and `[NAME]` with a name for the model artifact.

Reviewer: Same here

Author: Holding on this one: `models/track` is standardized on square-bracket placeholders (`[LIKE-THIS]`) per @johndmulhausen and mdlinville, matching the /style-guide skill, so I am keeping `[BRACKETS]` on this PR. Flagging the angle-vs-square convention for a separate org-wide decision so it is settled in one place rather than per PR.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

```python
import wandb

# Initialize a W&B run
with wandb.init(project="[YOUR-PROJECT]", entity="[YOUR-ENTITY]") as run:

    # Log the model

>     run.log_model(path="[PATH-TO-MODEL]", name="[NAME]")

Reviewer: Same comment.

Author: Holding on this one: `models/track` is standardized on square-bracket placeholders (`[LIKE-THIS]`) per @johndmulhausen and mdlinville, matching the /style-guide skill, so I am keeping `[BRACKETS]` on this PR. Flagging the angle-vs-square convention for a separate org-wide decision so it is settled in one place rather than per PR.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

```

Optionally provide a name for the model artifact for the `name` parameter. If `name` isn't specified, W&B uses the basename of the input path prepended with the run ID as the name.

<Note>
Keep track of the `name` that you, or W&B assigns, to the model. You need the name of the model to retrieve the model path with the [`wandb.Run.use_model()`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#use_model) method.
</Note>

> For parameters, see [`log_model`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#log_model) in the API Reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For parameters, see [`wandb.Run.log_model()`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#log_model) in the API Reference.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion in `cf5b4357`.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

    run.log_model(path=full_path, name="MNIST")
```

> When you call `wandb.Run.log_model()`, W&B creates a model artifact named `MNIST` and adds the file `model.h5` to the model artifact. Your terminal or notebook prints a link to the run the model was logged to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use `wandb.Run.log_model()`, W&B creates a model artifact named `MNIST` and adds the file `model.h5` to the model artifact. Your terminal or notebook prints a link to the run the model was logged to.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion in `cf5b4357`.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

</details>

After the run completes, the model files are stored as a model artifact in W&B and are linked to the run as an output.

## Download and use a logged model

After you log a model, you can retrieve its files in a later run to evaluate it, fine-tune it, or use it for inference.

> Use the [`use_model`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#use_model) function to access and download model files previously logged to a W&B run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use [`wandb.Run.use_model()`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#use_model) method to access and download model files previously logged to a W&B run.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion in `cf5b4357`.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

Provide the name of the model artifact where the model files you want to retrieve are stored. The name you provide must match the name of an existing logged model artifact.

If you didn't define `name` when you originally logged the files with `log_model`, the default name assigned is the basename of the input path, prepended with the run ID.

> Replace `[YOUR-PROJECT]` with your project name, `[YOUR-ENTITY]` with your entity name, and `[YOUR-MODEL-NAME]` with the name of the model artifact to retrieve.

Reviewer: Same here

Author: Holding on this one: `models/track` is standardized on square-bracket placeholders (`[LIKE-THIS]`) per @johndmulhausen and mdlinville, matching the /style-guide skill, so I am keeping `[BRACKETS]` on this PR. Flagging the angle-vs-square convention for a separate org-wide decision so it is settled in one place rather than per PR.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

```python
import wandb

# Initialize a run
with wandb.init(project="[YOUR-PROJECT]", entity="[YOUR-ENTITY]") as run:

    # Access and download model. Returns path to downloaded artifact

>     downloaded_model_path = run.use_model(name="[YOUR-MODEL-NAME]")

Reviewer: K. Will stop commenting on these. All placeholders shouldn't use square brackets. That indicates list types.

Author: Holding on this one: `models/track` is standardized on square-bracket placeholders (`[LIKE-THIS]`) per @johndmulhausen and mdlinville, matching the /style-guide skill, so I am keeping `[BRACKETS]` on this PR. Flagging the angle-vs-square convention for a separate org-wide decision so it is settled in one place rather than per PR.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

```

> The [`use_model`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#use_model) function returns the path of downloaded model files. Keep track of this path if you want to link this model later. In the previous code snippet, the returned path is stored in a variable called `downloaded_model_path`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`wandb.Run.use_model()`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#use_model) method returns the path of downloaded model files. Keep track of this path if you want to link this model later. In the previous code snippet, the returned path is stored in a variable called `downloaded_model_path`.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion in `cf5b4357`.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

<details>

<summary>Example: Download and use a logged model</summary>

> In the following code snippet, you call the `use_model` API. You specify the name of the model artifact to fetch along with a version or alias, then store the returned path in the `downloaded_model_path` variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code snippet shows how to use `wandb.Run.use_model()` to fetch a model based on its name and alias:
```

Author: Applied your suggestion in `cf5b4357`.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_

```
</details>

> For parameters and return type, see [`use_model`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#use_model) in the API Reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For parameters and return type, see [`wandb.Run.use_model()`](/models/ref/python/experiments/run#use_model) in the API Reference.
```

Author: Applied your suggestion in `cf5b4357`.

_🤖 Addressed by [Claude Code](https://claude.com/claude-code)_
